John Anthony West and Robert Schoch
shocked the world in the 1990s
when they revealed that their research
on the Sphinx showed erosion due to rainfall
in what is now an almost totally arid land.
The implications were vast, because this meant
that the Sphinx would be many thousands of years
older than what Egyptologists had believed.
Needless to say, the mainstream field of
archaeology has not embraced the
work of these two remarkable men,
because it would mean admitting
that the Egyptian civilization was far more
sophisticated than we can comprehend, which is
the emphasis of my conversation with John Anthony West.
(mysterious music)
So, here we are at this incredible conference.
Every speaker has something valuable to add to this subject.
I'm hearing a theme developing this year
that wasn't here as much last year,
and that is the theme of consciousness
and the remembrance of lost knowledge.
You spoke very eloquently about this.
Can you tell us how it is we could have been,
up to this point, so unaware, of the things
we're just now starting to remember?
Well, the knowledge has been lost
in large part because, let's put it this way,
the knowledge has not been recovered
or is only now being recovered because
our science is only now getting to the point
where we can understand that the ancients had
parallel science equally advanced
but expressed very differently through
myth and symbol, rather than through mathematics.
And there are huge advantages to a
symbolic and mythological expression
of science actually, and that is that
everybody can understand it, at his or her
own level, whereas when its all mathematics,
virtually everybody but the mathematicians
and the cosmologists are lost,
and then it has to be reexplained
to the great mass of people who don't
actually want to know because they're
all busy watching American Idol.
So, it's only in the last, put it this way,
it's not the whole notion that
advanced civilizations existed in the past,
has never been entirely lost, but since the rise
of modern science, let's say since 1750 or so,
it's definitely been pushed under the rug
as what I like to call the church of progress,
has taken over and become the ruling church
virtually all around the world,
virtually every educational system
is based upon church of progress
assumptions and chief, you might say
the principal dogma of that church,
is that we are the most advanced beings
that have ever inhabited the planet.
So, anything that comes along that
seriously challenges that dogma
is treated basically the same way
the church of Rome treated heretics,
except it's no longer politically
correct to burn us at the stake.
Or feed us to lions.
Or feed us to lions, true, but they would if they could.
I have a question, and this is
your big, fat opinion, okay, and that is
is there a certain amount of symmetry
to that, when you look at the procession,
we look at ages of awakening, is there some
logic that at that time, through the last
couple thousand years, information has been
particularly repressed because maybe
the masses weren't ready to go there yet,
the frequencies weren't such for us to take that ride,
or was it deliberate and based on ego on some level?
Oh, I don't think it was deliberate,
necessarily, but I do think that we're
starting to understand procession,
let's say the relationship between
the Yuga cycle, what Plato called
the Great Year of successive gold and silver,
bronze, iron ages, the gold age being the
mythical golden age of all of the myths and legends,
and the iron age rarely called that,
except in technological terms,
which is supposed to be an advance,
but actually from a spiritual and metaphysical
point of view, it represents a dark age.
So, let's say in Europe, but it's more or less global,
it's just more pronounced perhaps in Europe than elsewhere,
the Dark Age is really pretty dark
when you get to about the 6th-7th centuries A.D.,
and there's not much left, it's analogous to
the, I like to think it's analogous to the
cycle we're so familiar with, of winter,
spring, summer, autumn, winter, etc.
In the winter, there's not much you can do,
particularly if you like in upstate New York like me.
Now in Florida or California, it's not so bad.
But the seeds, nothing will grow
in the winter, at least in a lot of places,
and if anything is going to grow,
it has to be kept, it has to be concealed
somewhere or anyway, let's say,
hidden from the ravages of the weather,
and this actually is what, if you stop and think about it,
more or less the function of the monasteries
in Christianity and the monasteries elsewhere,
the ashrams in India, temples in Japan, and so on,
and if they're seen as preservers of wisdom,
it's a kind of a good, interesting way to look
at this whole cycle, and then we come out
of it at least scientifically, if not spiritually.
Strangely enough, we're at a very strange
juncture at the moment where, you might say,
from the philosophical and spiritual point of view,
we're at absolutely the low point,
we're much worse off than 6th century
monks in their monasteries where,
at the same time, we have this terrifically
advanced intelligent but misdirected science.
Let's face it, 95% or 99% of science is
devoted to things that are either
frivolous or downright destructive.
One of the possible signs of real hope
is that something happens, and I don't know what,
maybe, actually I'd like to think that
I and my colleagues here and plenty
of others being part of it, that somewhere
along the line, this has a resonance
and at least shakes some people loose
and they start thinking in other terms
and if that creative energy, which is a fact,
it takes an enormous amount of intelligence
to produce a bobblehead doll, it's just who needs it.
And make it a bestselling
commercial item during the holiday season.
Well, of course but that's the whole idea.
That takes real genius.
Actually, that's one of the big problems
with contemporary science, I mean,
what isn't devoted to designing
weapons of mass destruction is
designed for no other reason than to make money.
That's the, let's say, of the dogma
of the the church of progress is that
we're the most advanced beings,
its modus operandi is entirely based
upon money, and so most creative and
scientific thought is devoted toward
precisely making more money out of
something or another, no matter what
the something or another is worth.
But that said, it's only in the last
hundred years or so that our science
has got to the point where its capable of
understanding what the ancients actually did know.
Really, there are only a few groundbreaking books,
Hamlet's Mill back in the late '60s,
Schwaller de Lubicz 's own massive magisterial
reinterpretation of Egypt, which is unfortunately,
it's now published in English and it's actually
a wonderful translation, but it's pretty impenetrable,
it's not easy reading, nor is Hamlet's Mill.
The name of it again?
Well, my book, The Serpent in the Sky,
is basically an in-depth introduction
to Schwaller de Lubicz's work,
which in English is called The Temple of Man.
It's a massive volume, but this is daunting.
Even here at CPAK we see a lot of
really brainy guys up there talking,
but some of it is not really that easy to understand.
I mean, you're not going to tear
anyone away from American Idol
to listen to John Deering and his astrophysics.
That said, the possibility is there now,
and in the last two decades, a lot of work
has come out implementing in many ways
this whole notion of advanced civilization,
so you can now approach it from all sorts
of different points of view and some of it
is, you might say, user friendly,
in the sense that a certain amount of it
is comprehensible to ordinary people
who don't necessarily even have a,
they don't even know that they're interested in this,
or a scientific background, but they don't
even know they're interested until its on
and actually that's one of the reasons why
our Sphinx, our geological work on the Sphinx, is as
important as it is, is it's immediately graspable.
Teachers show the video Mystery of the Sphinx
to 6th grade, 7th grade, 8th grade classes,
and the kids understand it fine.
And then, they're hooked, as it were.
Once you're bitten -
Once you can see the
magic for yourself, a little bit -
And then, it's up to individuals to
pursue it or not pursue it, as the case may be.
But, in order to make any real change
in the pell mell, downhill spiral
of this crazy civilization, an awful lot of people
have to suddenly get interested,
and quite suddenly decide that their
creative energies and their interests are
drastically and wrongly directed.
And if that happens, maybe something good happens.
Maybe personally, I'm pessimistic about that.
Well, I have faith.
Maybe it's because I'm an optimist,
but you personally make it interesting.
Not only do you inject humor, and
you put, obviously the science is there
and the credentials are there,
but you peaked some peoples' curiosity
yesterday with a very large rendition of sperm.
That interests almost everybody.
That's right.
But let's go a little bit more into why
you would've chosen that in particular
and that is, in the hieroglyphics,
I'd have to go through my notes here,
where is that particular depiction?
It's the tomb of Ramses, either the 6th or the 9th,
I think it's the 6th, and it comes from
a cosmological tableau on one of the walls,
depicting the creation of the universe.
In this depiction of the creation,
one very, one principle of the Egyptian
creation myth, there are a number of them
which are complementary, they're not different,
it's like the same scene in a room,
but seen through different windows
or different doors so it looks different
from each angle, but really its the same scene.
So, Atun, who is the great creator god,
who I sometimes refer to as the god
before the gods came into being,
through an act of masturbation
creates the first pair, the first man and woman,
the first masculine/feminine, the first positive/negative.
This then gives rise to a whole further set of gods,
and by the time you're finished, there are 10 of them.
Leading eventually to Isis and Osiris,
which really represents the role of humanity
within the grand cosmic scheme and the
scenes, or the parts of the myth,
preceding it are the stages of cosmogenesis
from the first polarity to the universe itself
to the breath of life across to the separation
of earth and heaven and the breath of life
across the waters and then the
Isis, Osiris, Horus, Seth, Isis, Osiris
Seth, Osiris, Seth, Isis, Nephthis, and then Horus,
this actually represents symbolically
the role of humanity within the grand cosmic scheme,
which is central to the Egyptian doctrine
and virtually every other serious
metaphysical esoteric system there ever was.
And they didn't do anything by accident,
these were not accidental in any way.
It appears there are no accidents anywhere
in the architecture or hieroglyphics at all.
It's clear that they know because
there are these four little snakes,
each with a human head with a beard on it,
which is the symbol of a divinity,
a bearded head with a beard that
goes like that is a divinity, but then
at the end of the snakes, there are millions
of snakes and serpents and cobras
throughout Egyptian symbolism and
the symbolism of other cultures as well,
but in this case, and only in this case,
there's a little hook on the tail
and that little hook, and the texts say,
this is the sperm of Atun, and as far as we know,
they didn't have anything resembling
a normal magnifying glass, there's some question
about whether they could have used
a cow's eye to magnify, but I'm not sure,
but I think that you need a fairly advanced
microscope in order to see what a sperm cell looks like.
So, how did they know, we don't know,
because an awful lot that they knew
and we don't know how they acquired it,
but this applies throughout ancient
knowledge all over the place, in other words,
our assumption and our arrogance,
church of progress arrogance, that
the way we acquire knowledge is the
only way to acquire knowledge.
But we know, anybody who's actually read the literature,
or in fact, gone through the experiences know that
shamans and other developed human beings,
even if they can't do high energy physics,
or even complicated mathematics,
they have ways of knowing things that
cannot be explained by any rational beings.
The example I like to use is acupuncture.
It's quite clear that acupuncture works.
It's quite clear that there are such meridians,
even though up to now, they've not been detected.
I've just read the other day somewhere,
that they've now been able to trace the
meridians someway or another, one of the
speakers here was talking about it.
Radioactive isotopes, they've been able to do it.
They check it somehow or another.
But the point is that without that,
there's no way, no possible way,
that anybody could develop that system
on a rational basis, I mean, nobody
is going to stick a pin in somebody's toe
and all of a sudden his kidney gets better,
and then they say, well, let's try
sticking a pin in the other toe.
It's impossible, that's right, it's impossible.
So it's quite clear that they did know,
and how they knew is, to us, virtually
inconceivable except by analogy,
because shamans and yogis and zen masters
and people like that do acquire knowledge,
but through a certain kind of inner training,
and to normal, untrained human beings,
me, for example, can't get that.
So, obviously they were getting it
and we could go down any number of tracks right here,
but what you were saying also,
which appears to be true, if you look
at some of the depictions is that they,
it wasn't just the gods, but even the royalty,
were apparently initiates of some
kind and had access to knowledge.
Probably, because simply, any organization
runs from the top on down, and if the top
are drunk or crazy or stupid, the whole civilization
disappears, as we're about to see.
It's almost certain that the pharaohs
must have gone through considerable
rigorous training in order to keep a society
coherent for 3,000 years, even though,
and this is another very interesting question,
it was in decline almost from its very beginning.
Its high point was the Old Kingdom about 2700 B.C.
And then it proceeded to go downhill
up to the time of Julius Caesar and then
as a coherent civilization it disappeared.
Now that is another matter all together,
but gets us back to our gold ages or yugas
or whatever it is that's responsible for that.
But obviously some are trying
to preserve that knowledge, I mean,
the depictions are there, do you think
that some of this information was
left literally for us to rediscover it in another time?
I don't know actually; it's tempting to think so.
I'm more inclined to think that the pyramids
and some of these gigantic structures,
that one function they may have served
is that people at that time, sages,
enlightened people, understood
that the cycle was on a downhill slope,
and so encoded it maybe for the benefit
of future generations, and also maybe,
since I'm convinced that tombs,
that the pyramids are energetic structures
of some sort, that they actually have a
technological function, I'd like to think,
maybe to re-spiritualize the Earth
or to carry out initiatic ceremonies within them,
something of that sort, but otherwise the temples
are there for the people to use,
or for the priesthood to use, and the
function of sacred architecture, actually,
is not to propitiate the gods,
which the academics would like to think,
or not even to worship them in a sense,
because of sacred geometry, the gods
should be understood anyhow as cosmic principles,
and once they're understood as cosmic principles,
the whole polytheism theme disappears,
because it's not polytheism at all,
it's simply the cosmic principles upon
which the universe is founded, through which,
knowledgeably or just automatically,
we are able to make some sort of sense
out of the material world around us.
Without the principles, it would just be chaos.
Anyway, the so-called gods are each of them
connected in one way or are associated
with certain numbers and those numbers
give rise to certain kinds of geometry,
certain proportions, certain measures,
and when those, when the geometry,
harmonies, proportions, measures
are incorporated into a given structure
by people who know what they're doing,
then we get a temple of Luxor, or a Karnak,
or Abydos, or Dendera, or whatever,
and when you walk into those places,
you get a hit from it, I mean,
you have to be not just brain dead,
but emotionally defective and spiritually dyslexic,
not to get something out of Egypt.
And this is one of the things on my trips,
sometimes I like to say, why is Egypt like sex?
Egypt is like sex because you can read about it
from now until doomsday, and you can even watch
pictures, but until you've experienced it,
you don't understand a damn thing.
And so, with Egypt, even in ruins,
and even now there are a lot of crowds,
and I find ways on my own trips to avoid the crowds mostly -
You've devoted many years to this.
Oh yeah, well, yes, partly, that's
where most of my living comes from.
I'm sort of living proof that fame and fortune
do not necessarily go together,
and I sometimes think I'd rather be
an obscure billionaire, but yeah,
I've been leading the trips now for over 20 years
and it is a real difference, I mean,
it's fun giving a lecture here at CPAK,
but when I have my people and there we are
meditating in the Great Pyramid or
walking through one of these incredible temples and
making sense of it via Schwaller's simplest interpretation,
the whole thing, people go home,
it's very rare that somebody doesn't use,
it becomes a hackneyed phrase,
a life-changing experience, but that's Egypt
and other old civilizations have
produced the same effect,
you go into Shandra Cathedral, you can't miss it.
And you go into Indian temples or
some of the great Islamic mosques,
and you get it there as well, but it's only
in Egypt where it's at that level of,
the prodigious size of it all,
and then the variation between temple
to temple to temple, cathedrals
are more or less, you can't say
once you've seen one you've seen them all,
but basically it's the same message
and the same with the mosques,
Indian temples are considerably more varied
and you go back still further into Cambodia
and places like that, but Egypt, you get this
real hit on a day to day basis, and people come out
let's say, exhilarated but exhausted.
I want to go on one of your trips with you.
I'm going to work it out, I want to go there with you
one day with you and I'm serious about it.
Meanwhile, let's tie it back into procession,
because there's huge dispute among the
scientific community about the ages of
these structures and when the original layers
of these structures were built,
and this may have something to do
tying it back with the procession,
I can guess, in terms of higher knowledges
that descended and now may be coming back,
if we make it through this next little bit.
Well, if we make it through the next bit.
Not exactly, I mean, one is one
question and the other is the other.
Dating for most of the structures in Egypt and elsewhere,
is not too much problem with the dating.
It's the Sphinx and the Giza plateau
because the pyramids, for example,
are quite demonstrably built in stages,
we can prove this, and there are a few
other places in Egypt where you see this.
Elsewhere in the world, it's now becoming
quite clear that the megaliths that are
all over Europe and all over America
and all over the world, some of them date
much further back than anyone expected,
but the main thing is that the knowledge
encoded in them, mainly geodesic,
that's the science of Earth measures,
and geodesic and astronomical,
is tremendously sophisticated.
The argument is over how sophisticated,
and of course the -
And without aerial maps, extremely sophisticated.
Well, without aerial maps, there are the
ancient maps that show the outlines of,
Western outlines of North and South
America and Antarctica -
Right, Graham Hancock's
Fingerprints of the Gods, yeah.
Right, and those, my guess is, those
somehow or another survived the
destruction of the Alexandria library
and surfaced somewhere in Turkey or
the Middle East to be used by the early
Western explorers going over to the New World.
The number that keeps coming up
in this conference and came up in
your work as well is 10,500 B.C.
The Sphinx seems to scream out as a Leo marker.
The last Leo, the last age of Leo, the ingress into Leo
was about 10,500 B.C., but me, I think an
actually more extreme view, based upon
Egyptian texts themselves where they
talk about these long reigns of divine kings
and then still another period of long reigns
by semi-divine beings called the
Followers and Companions of Horus,
and we compute the regnal years out,
you get somewhere around 34,000 or 36,000 years
and actually the age of Leo before 10,500
is about 36,000 B.C., and me, intuitively,
I feel like for the Sphinx to have gotten
into the condition it's in, the lots and lots
of rain over long periods of time,
it almost requires those tremendous lengths of time
in order to produce those kinds of pneumatic effects.
That's something that we hope to resolve,
or at least partially resolve,
or approach the problem, let's say,
with our geopanel that we're putting together now,
where we intend to go over three on our side,
three opponents, and duke it out on the Giza plateau,
and then everyone writes papers and
let the chips fall where they may.
But I'm hoping that the results are
positive enough to actually jumpstart,
and I feel that that could be because it
is so easy to understand, it could be
the battering ram that breaks down the
portcullis of the ivory towers of academia.
Absolutely, and I couldn't
wish you more luck on that one.
I really hope you guys can get
some consensus on it, at least you can get
them somewhat on board on the other side.
No, you know, we won't.
The ones, they'll go down with the ship, most of them.
What will happen is some of the younger ones,
some of the younger ones and people
who are not necessarily even involved
in the discipline but are smart enough
to look at evidence and understand what it is,
they start making a bunch of noise and
suddenly it becomes unfashionable to be,
it becomes unfashionable to be traditional.
And at that point, maybe things start to change,
but really, one of the lists of the world's shortest books,
joking around years ago, probably the shortest
of them all is New Ideas in Egyptology.
Well, you're certainly doing your part.
I'm doing my best.
John Anthony West, I'm just
saying that because I love the sound of your name.
Thank you so much for your time,
and I hope to be with you on one of
those journeys and I'm sure some of our
viewers will be as well.
I hope you will be, thank you.
Please go to John's website below to
see about joining him in what is
bound to be a trip of a lifetime tour to Egypt.
You can also purchase his books
by clicking on the link below.
Until next time, thanks for watching.
(mysterious music)